Daniel K. Inouye International Airport[2] (IATA: HNL, ICAO: PHNL, FAA LID: HNL), also known as Honolulu International Airport, is the principal aviation gateway of the City and County of Honolulu on Oahu in the State of Hawaii. It is identified as one of the busiest airports in the United States, with traffic now exceeding 21 million passengers a year and rising.[3]

The airport is named after the U.S. Senator and Medal of Honor recipient Daniel K. Inouye, who represented Hawaii from 1963 until his death in 2012. The airport is located in the Honolulu census-designated place three miles (5 km) northwest of Honolulu's central business district.[4][5] Main roads leading to the airport are Nimitz Highway and the Queen Liliuokalani Freeway of Interstate H-1.

Daniel K. Inouye International Airport serves as the principal hub of Hawaiian Airlines, the largest Hawaii-based airline. It offers flights between the various airports of the Hawaiian Islands and also serves the continental United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, American Samoa, Tahiti, Japan, China, the Philippines, and South Korea. It is host to major United States and international airlines, with direct flights to North American, Asian, and Pacific Rim destinations. In addition to services to most major western cities and many smaller gateways, especially in California, the airport has succeeded in attracting long-haul services to the East Coast including the recently added destinations of Toronto每Pearson and Washington每Dulles, which have joined established services to Atlanta, New York每JFK, and Newark.

It is also the base for Aloha Air Cargo, which previously offered both passenger and cargo services under the name Aloha Airlines. This airline ceased passenger flights on March 31, 2008, and sold off its cargo services to Seattle-based Saltchuk Resources, Inc. (also owners of inter-island sea-based shipping company Young Brothers and Hawaiian Tug & Barge).

In 2012, the airport handled 19,291,412 passengers, 278,145 aircraft movements and processed 412,270 metric tons of cargo.[6] It is included in the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems for 2017每2021, in which it is categorized as a large-hub primary commercial service facility.[7] 