Modernization and history since 2006

On March 24, 2006, Hawaii Governor Linda Lingle unveiled a $2.3 billion modernization program for Hawaii airports over a 12-year period, with $1.7 billion budgeted for Honolulu International Airport.[48] The plan involves implementing short-term projects within the first five years to improve passenger service and increase security and operational efficiencies.[49]

As part of the modernization, flight display monitors throughout the airport have been upgraded, new food and beverage vendors have been added, and a new parking garage across from the International Arrivals terminal has been completed. Current projects include an international arrivals corridor with moving sidewalks built atop the breezeway leading to the Ewa Concourse. The first phase of the project was completed in October 2009, while the remainder of the two phase project was completed in 2010.[50]

In 2011, Hawaiian Airlines renovated the check-in lobby of the Interisland Terminal, replacing the traditional check-in counters with six circular check-in islands in the middle of the lobbies, which can be used for inter-island, mainland, and international flights. This renovation project was fully funded by Hawaiian Airlines and not a part of the modernization program.[51]

Future projects include construction of a Mauka Concourse branching off the Interisland Terminal, the first concourse expansion at Honolulu International Airport in 15 years. Construction of the concourse will involve replacing the existing Commuter Terminal.[52] This new concourse will be for the exclusive use of Hawaiian Airlines, and will allow it to reduce use of overseas terminal gates for international and US mainland flights. This will mean less walking for passengers who check in, clear security, and use the baggage claim at the inter-island terminal. It will also free up gates in the overseas terminal for use by other airlines. Landside plans include construction of a consolidated rental car facility (CONRAC). A temporary rental car center is currently being built in the overseas parking garage so that the existing rental car facilities can be demolished to make way for the new permanent facility.

By 2012, Hawaiian Airlines was re-establishing Honolulu International Airport as a connecting hub between the United States mainland and the Asia-Pacific region.[53] That year, according to a Massachusetts Institute of Technology study, the airport had 24% fewer domestic departure flights than it did in 2007.[54]

During the 2016 legislative session, the Hawaii state legislature passed a resolution requesting the Department of Transportation to rename Honolulu International Airport for the late U.S. Senator and Medal of Honor recipient Daniel Inouye.[55] The new name first appeared in Federal Aviation Administration documentation on April 27, 2017,[56] and the airport was officially renamed in a ceremony at the airport on May 30, 2017.

On June 1, 2018, the Department of Transportation started renumbering all gates and baggage claim numbers[57]. Gates were renamed alphanumerically and baggage claim numbers were renumbered from alphanumerical to numerical. The Hawaii Department of Transportation cited the expansion of existing terminals in the airport as a reason to renumber all gates and baggage claims. 